

                                      Summary Notes for VBA code in NAIC Specific VBA file 
				  related to download of Insurance Company Information

At one time the code in the VBA file worked. However, much time has passed so there are no guarantees with this VBA code.

These documents can provide ideas and suggestions for using Excel and MS Access in situations where there is a lot of data 
to review, synthesize, and analyze. Also, hopefully, this code, these functions, can facilitate data downloads and 
data analysis. 

NAIC Insurer Schedules (NAIC Specific VBA file): All regulatory schedule filings that were required for a review of a 
given CoCode: Stock, preferred stock, cash, footnotes, debt, BA assets, derivatives, and other schedules which 
were used to create our portfolio analysis memorandums (PAMs). Options at the time allowed for the 
specification of a CoCode, whether headings were to be included in the download as the first row (allowing for a simple data dump), 
whether the downloads were to instead use the PAM Excel workbook template (so that the columns all lined up, the summary tables 
were automatically calculted, and the analysis spreadsheets were properly populated, allowing the user to jump immediately 
to data analysis instead of gathering and properly formatting the data, and specification/restriction of just 
current and/or prior years. 
	  
All/any tables containing data targeted for downloading must first have a MS Access "link" created without which the 
Access VBA code cannot connect to the underlying data. These links needed to be created manually. There was no way to 
automate the linking via VBA (to my knowledge). So any required MS Access links to ISite Oracle tables need to be in 
place for this code to execute.
   
The NAIC allows two ways to reference any given table. "CY"-Table Name for the current year, "PY"-Table Name for 
the prior year, "P3"-Table Name for the table 4 years back (I think), and alternatively the year desired, 
i.e. 2006-Table Name.  I saw advantages in using the "CY" / "PY" format, in that it minimized year-over-year changes. 
That was the convention I adopted. In retrospect, with the number of years that have passes, I now would have 
been better off adopting the alternate convention. Such is life. 
 
Because the NAIC generally changes the format of its Oracle data tables every year this download process will need extensive 
changes to reflect the current NAIC table formats before executing correctly, although the process by which SQL code is 
created for each table was done with the deliberate intent that year-over-year impacts from table changes be minimal. If column 
names are unchanged data will still be pulled. However, the NAIC is not shy about changing the column names, which blows up the 
individual SQL queries with a "column not found" error.  Additionally, existing SQL queries can't (to the best of my knowledge) 
include any new columns. (I may be wrong about this, but any new columns may also blow up the Excel worksheet formats where the 
bulk of the analysis is performed).  I remember that one evolution was to use the Oracle system tables to create the list of 
column names to include in the SQL query, obviating the need to confirm the field names year-over-year. However, the Excel template 
DID need to be changed so that the right data columns ended up in the correct columns in the Excel template.
   
    Table Name Formats
        First character - L - life, X - health, P - P&C, F - Fraternal, T - Title insurers 
		Year Reference - 2013, or CY, or PY9
		Q - quarterly data
		Schedule Name / Exhibit
			SC-Schedule
			PT-Part, 
			SN-Section
			Examples: LCYQSCDPT3_V - view of Life, current year, quarterly data, Sched D Part 3 (common stock)
					  LCYQASSETS_V - view of Life, quarterly assets list, 
					  LCYSCDBPTASN1FE_V
			
