                                       Notes for the DailyData Workbook
		   
This project came out of my experience tracking down benchmark values for the NAIC's capital markets daily newsletter.  
In each newsletter, there was a summary of market benchmarks - the S&P 500, Dow, Dollar - Sterling, Dollar - Yen, 
Crude, LIBOR rate, 10 year bond, etc. Tracking down these values on internet websites, and verifying the correctness 
of the values could take 45 minutes or more. It was tedious and error-prone. 

The DailyData spreadsheet used the download feature of the Bloomberg terminal to speed this task. When the workbook 
is opened, an "Open Workbook" macro is run. If a directory exists on the "C:" drive, the worksheet deduces that it 
is at a Bloomberg terminal and a form is presented, after several queries are run to retrieve the desired index 
values. It then prompts the user to accept the values returned.  If certain values are missing, the user has the 
chance to again calculate the benchmark values. This can be repeated as many times as is required to get a complete 
data set.  The values are then saved to the approporiate worksheets, which effectively serve as databases, and the 
workbook is saved (ideally to a flashdrive) and the file closed. 

Next, the user goes to his or her own computer and inserts the flash drive with the updated file. The "open workbook" 
macro is again run, and upon finding that the directory specific to Bloomberg terminals does not exist, it opens up 
a different form, and then jumps immediately to the relevant spreadsheet, inserts the relevant date, selects the 
relevant cells, and issues a "Copy" command.  The user merely has to then go to the word document which contains the 
newsletter commentary, and "Paste" the table in, in whatever format is required. 

With this spreadsheet, what had been a time-consuming, error prone, and close to deadline a stressful process is 
reduced to a leisurely, relatively stress free, fast, accurate, and relatively mindless process. 